Documentation: Add Home, Homebucket, and Homeroot workspace info (#1561)
kcp-dev/kcp: docs/workspaces.md

cluster workspaces. In contrast to namespace in Kubernetes, this includes non-namespaced
objects, e.g. like CRDs where each workspace can have its own set of CRDs installed.

The following cluster workspace types are created internally to support User Home Workspaces:

* `Home`: the ClusterWorkspace of home workspaces - can contain any type of workspaces as children (especially universal workspaces)
* `Homebucket`: the type of workspaces that will contains a subset of all home workspaces. - Can contain either Homebucket (multi-level bucketing) or Home workspaces

> * `Homeroot`: the workspace that will contain all the Home workspaces, spread accross buckets. - Can contain only Homebucket workspaces

Reviewer: I would reorder with Homeroot first, then Homebucket, then Home. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I'm not against it.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to include this in a dedicated section about user Home workspaces, very explaining the concept and related virtual existence and automatic creation ?

cluster workspaces. In contrast to namespace in Kubernetes, this includes non-namespaced
objects, e.g. like CRDs where each workspace can have its own set of CRDs installed.

## User Home Workspaces

> TODO: explaining the concept and related virtual existence and automatic creation 

Reviewer 3: Maybe helpful:
```
		"enable-home-workspaces",                 // Enable the Home Workspaces feature (enabled by default). Home workspaces allow a personal home workspace to provisioned on first access per-user. A user is cluster-admin inside his personal Home workspace.
		"home-workspaces-creation-delay-seconds", // Delay, in seconds, before accessing the Home is retried after its automatic creation. This value is used when sending 'retry-after' responses to the Kubernetes client.
		"home-workspaces-bucket-levels",          // Number of levels of bucket workspaces when bucketing home workspaces
		"home-workspaces-bucket-size",            // Number of characters of bucket workspace names used when bucketing home workspaces
		"home-workspaces-home-creator-groups",    // Groups of users who can have their home workspace created automatically create when first accessing it.
		"home-workspaces-root-prefix",            // Logical cluster name of the workspace that will contains home workspaces for all workspaces.
```

> TODO: explaining the concept and related virtual existence and automatic creation 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
User home workspaces are an optional feature of kcp. If enabled (through `--enable-home-workspaces`), there is a special virtual `Workspace` called `~` in the root workspace. It is used by `kubectl ws` (which similarly to Unix `cd` move the users to their home) to derive the full path to the user home workspace. This full path depends on the user name, the configured number (default 2), the length (default 2) of bucket workspaces and the root prefix (default `root:users`). With that a user `adam` is mapped to e.g. `root:users:a8:f1:adam`. The bucket names are deterministically derived from the user name (via some hash).

The user home workspace, if enabled, is logically pre-existing for every user, i.e. the user is given that impression. In reality, the home workspace is created on-demand on access, but this creation is not visible from outside.

Only users of the configured home-creator-groups (default `system:authenticated`) will have a home workspace.
```

The following cluster workspace types are created internally to support User Home Workspaces:

> * `Homeroot`: the workspace that will contain all the Home workspaces, spread accross buckets. - Can contain only Homebucket workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `homeroot`: the workspace that will contain all the Home workspaces, spread accross buckets. - Can contain only Homebucket workspaces
```

> * `Homebucket`: the type of workspaces that will contains a subset of all home workspaces. - Can contain either Homebucket (multi-level bucketing) or Home workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Homebucket`: the type of workspaces that will contain a subset of all home workspaces. - Can contain either Homebucket (multi-level bucketing) or Home workspaces
```

> * `Homebucket`: the type of workspaces that will contain a subset of all home workspaces. - Can contain either Homebucket (multi-level bucketing) or Home workspaces
> * `Home`: the ClusterWorkspace of home workspaces - can contain any type of workspaces as children (especially universal workspaces)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `homebucket`: the type of workspaces that will contain a subset of all home workspaces. - Can contain either Homebucket (multi-level bucketing) or Home workspaces
* `home`: the ClusterWorkspace of home workspaces - can contain any type of workspaces as children (especially universal workspaces)
```

cluster workspaces. In contrast to namespace in Kubernetes, this includes non-namespaced
objects, e.g. like CRDs where each workspace can have its own set of CRDs installed.

## User Home Workspaces

> User home workspaces are an optional feature of kcp. If enabled (through `--enable-home-workspaces`), there is a special virtual `Workspace` called `~` in the root workspace. It is used by `kubectl ws` (which similarly to Unix `cd` move the users to their home) to derive the full path to the user home workspace. This full path depends on the user name, the configured number (default 2), the length (default 2) of bucket workspaces and the root prefix (default `root:users`). With that a user `adam` is mapped to e.g. `root:users:a8:f1:adam`. The bucket names are deterministically derived from the user name (via some hash).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
User home workspaces are an optional feature of kcp. If enabled (through `--enable-home-workspaces`), there is a special virtual `Workspace` called `~` in the root workspace. It is used by `kubectl ws` to derive the full path to the user home workspace, similar to how Unix `cd ~` moves a user to their home directory. This full path depends on the user name, the configured number (default 2), the length (default 2) of bucket workspaces and the root prefix (default `root:users`). With that a user `adam` is mapped to e.g. `root:users:a8:f1:adam`. The bucket names are deterministically derived from the user name (via some hash).
```

Reviewer 4: ```
The full path for a user's home workspace has a number of parts: `<prefix>:(<bucket>:)+<user-name>`. Buckets are used to ensure that ~1000 sub-buckets or users exist in any bucket, for scaling reasons. The `kcp` administrator can configure:

- the `<prefix>`, which defaults to `root:users`
- the bucket depth, which defaults to 2
- the bucket length, which defaults to 2

Note: with the current setup, ~60 users or ~2000 sub-buckets will be in any bucket. DO NOT set the bucket size to be longer than 2, as this will adversely impact performance.
```

Reviewer 4: cc @sttts @davidfestal 

IMHO - these options are pretty esoteric and an enormous foot-gun. No sane admin would ever choose something other than 2,2 - let's remove the options. This is silly.

Reviewer 4: e.g. choosing bucket length > 2 leads to a performance issue. So, we have the following options:

User-names have (26 * [(26 + 10 + 2) * 61] * 36 = 2169648) permutations, and buckets are made up of lowercase-alpha chars, so:

- length = 1, depth = 2 -> 26 sub-buckets per bucket; 2169648 / (26) ^2 = 3200 users per bucket
- length = 1, depth = 3 -> 26 * 38 = 988 sub-buckets per bucket; 2169648 / (26 * 38)^3 = 124 users per bucket
- length = 2, depth = 1 -> 26 * 38 = 988 sub-buckets per bucket; 2169648 / (26 * 38)^2 = 2196 users per bucket
- length = 2, depth = 2 -> 26 * 38 = 988 sub-buckets per bucket; 2169648 / (26 * 38)^2 = 3 users per bucket

Every single other option is nonsense. We should not have more than ~1000 sub-buckets per bucket, and we don't want fewer than 3 users per bucket .... 

IMHO we hard-code length = 1, depth = 3, and just go with it. Exposing these options is an illusion of choice.

Author: If this doc accurately depicts the current situation and if we agree that removing the option is probably the right thing (or at least worth discussing more) should we call this good and create an issue for proposing the default and removal of config option and include this breakdown?

Author: (to be clear: I'm happy to create that issue, just give me the 👍 )

Reviewer 4: @pweil- I think we should amend the comments in the doc to something like [this](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/pull/1561#discussion_r926886232) to be more clear

Reviewer 3: For the follow-up: I see value in the flags, but would clearly document the sensible cases in the flag docs, and add the math here (follow-up).

Author: follow up: https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/issues/1599

I've revamped the whole thing to include better organization, config info, and the example tables.  PTAL 👍

> The user home workspace, if enabled, is logically pre-existing for every user, i.e. the user is given that impression. In reality, the home workspace is created on-demand on access, but this creation is not visible from outside.

Reviewer 4: Who does this implementation detail impact? Lets' entirely remove the line.

Reviewer 3: it impacts admins and ppl trying to understand the system. They docs are not user-docs, not even admin docs.

Reviewer 4: Hm, docs without a target reader are kind of a smell. If we keep the line, @pweil- can we please edit it to something like:

> Home user workspaces are created on-demand when they are first accessed, but this is not visible to the user, allowing the system to only incur the cost of these workspaces when they are needed.

Author: done

> Only users of the configured home-creator-groups (default `system:authenticated`) will have a home workspace.

Reviewer 4: What is a `home-creator-group`? How do I set it?

Author: @davidfestal need your advice here.
